hello everybody welcome to this first
live class by e2 language comm in this
one we're going to look at the TOEFL
independent essay and I should probably
introduce myself first my name is Jay
and I'm one of the expert English
teachers here and also expert TOEFL
teachers so let's get started what I
want you to do today is actually write a
full independent essay of over 300 words
so we're gonna do it step by step I'm
going to show you how to write the
introduction I'm going to show you how
to write the paragraphs I'm gonna show
you how to write the conclusion I want
you to do it with me because on test day
if you've done this before it will be so
much easier I'm also going to show you
an excellent structure so you'll know
how to structure your essay on test day
as well there'll be no surprises so you
can get a high score so let's have a
look at this the TOEFL independent essay
what we're going to do I'm going to
describe the task to you I'm going to
show you an essay structure we're going
to write an introduction we're going to
write two paragraphs we're going to
write a conclusion the objective is for
you to understand how to write this
essay okay let me describe this task to
you on test day you will need to write
an essay of between 300 and 350 words
that gives your opinion and specific
reasons and examples to support your
opinion let's have a look at today's
essay question
today's essay question is this it says
it has three parts mind you and they're
all going to be pretty similar on test
day whoopsie what do I want I want I
want that one there so let's have a look
says here do you agree or disagree with
the following statement this is what
it's all about
eventually all jobs will be done by
artificially intelligent robots
eventually all jobs have a look at this
little adverb here or adjective rather
all jobs will be done by artificially
intelligent robots okay just quickly
into the chat type agree or disagree
because this is the most important
question you will ask yourself on test
day do you agree that all jobs will be
done by an AI or do you disagree you're
curious to know let's have a look
disagree okay fine disagree disagree
fine then you need to use reasons and
examples to support your opinion so we
need an essay structure we need an essay
structure and we're going to use us well
really a four paragraph structure we're
definitely going to have an introduction
paragraph one and paragraph two possibly
have a paragraph three if we are under
if we write less than 300 words then we
can include an additional paragraph but
usually you're just going to have this
one this one this one and this one okay
you definitely need a conclusion as well
more specifically let's look at the
sentences within each of those
paragraphs I'm this is what we're going
to do today I'm going to show you how to
write each of these sentences so the
introduction is going to have three
sentences okay your paragraphs are going
to have four sentences each we're going
to follow a really specific and tight
structure and your conclusion will have
two sentences so the beauty of this is
if you remember if you practice this
structure and you memorize this
structure the three sentence
introduction the four sentence paragraph
the two sentence conclusion on test day
no matter what question you get you can
use this structure it's very flexible
we're not memorizing a template we're
memorizing a structure it's different
okay
all right fine let's first of all before
we start writing we need to plan we need
to spend a minute or two thinking about
what we're going to say because one of
the biggest mistakes you can make on
test day is you see the question prompt
and you just start writing and without a
plan it could go anywhere
and we want to follow a very straight
and direct and and in the purposeful
path through the essay okay so the plan
you're going to ask yourself really
going to ask yourself three questions
maybe four three questions the most
important question that we've just asked
herself ourselves is what's your overall
opinion do you agree or do you disagree
that's the big question
because if you agree that all jobs will
be done by robots that's going to be the
theme in the thesis of your essay or if
you disagree and you think that robots
can only do some human jobs that will be
the path of your essay so this is the
biggest question you ask yourself what's
my overall opinion once you've asked
yourself that and let's say that you've
let's say that you disagree and you
think not all jobs will be done by
robots
what's your first reason you need to
come up with the reason why and then you
also need to come up with a second
reason because this will become your
paragraph one and this will become your
paragraph two the reason why so if you
disagree and you say that not all jobs
can be done by robots
what's your reason one what's your
reason to just spend 30 seconds thinking
of two main reasons please
alright let me show you my reasoning let
me show you I looked at this question
and I thought ok I I agree I think all
jobs will be done by robots and then I
came up with my reason one my reason to
let me show you so my overall opinion is
yes I agree ok yes or I agree fine now
reason one because robots intelligence
is increasing it's always increasing so
eventually they can do any job because
they'll be smart enough to do any job my
second reason is that not only will
their intelligence their mental
intelligence their IQs increase but also
I think their emotional intelligence
will also increase so not only can they
do the jobs of mathematicians and
scientists but they can also do the jobs
of doctors and teachers and nurses which
require an emotional aspect to the job
cool let's write our introductions so as
I said we have a three sentence
introduction we're going to write a
general statement based on the prompt
then we're going to rewrite the prompt
in our own words then we're going to
have a third sentence that outlines what
our main opinion is okay so let's do
sentence 1 write a general statement
based on the prompt so what does that
mean a general statement general
statement based on the prompt well
here's the prompt here here's the prompt
here it says eventually all jobs will be
done by artificially intelligent robots
I wrote machines are becoming more
common and more intelligent that's my
general statement based on the prompt
your turn please spend one minute
writing your sentence
all right let's have a look at this
that's all right that's all right cool
all right good so you've written your
general statement because the
introduction looks like an inverted
pyramid you start very broadly and then
you go into specifics okay so start with
a very broad background sentence that
introduces the topic to the reader about
robots and artificial intelligence for
example the next sentence we get a bit
more specific this is where we rewrite
the question prompt in our own words so
sentence two we rewrite the question
prompt in our own words let's look at
the question prompt again the question
prompt should always be at the in the
front of your mind you your everything
you write is about this prompt
eventually all jobs will be done by
artificially intelligent robots so
sentence - we rewrite the question
prompt in our own words I wrote this it
is thought by some people that
artificial intelligence will reach a
point where all human occupations will
be able to be conducted by robots rather
than people I want you to write rewrite
this in your own words
I'll cross mine out so you can't copy
you have one minutes
all right how did you go please feel
free to write your sentences into the
chat and the webinar or into the
comments below on YouTube if you're
watching this on YouTube by the way and
you like it please click like remember
to subscribe to this channel so you can
get alerts every time we do a live class
okay cool
fine so you've written the second
sentence of an introduction
now we write probably the most important
sentence of the entire essay the third
sentence of our introduction tells the
reader what we believe it tells the
reader our opinion and this is critical
okay this is absolutely critical so
let's have a look at this sentence three
this essay will this essay will this is
what we're doing here what this essay
will state your opinion so this essay
will discuss why artificially
intelligent robots will in fact take
over all human work in the near future
let's just see if that matches with the
prompt the prompt says eventually all
jobs will be done by artificially
intelligent robots this essay will
discuss why artificially intelligent
robots will in fact take over all human
work in the near future so this and this
say the same thing or at least I am
agreeing I'm agreeing completely
agreeing with this prompt here if you
completely disagree that's also fine you
could say this essay will disagree this
essay will disagree that artificial
intelligent robots can do all jobs in
human jobs in the future that's not a
problem oh I'm gonna lose my power point
there sorry so please write your third
sentence and tell the reader whether you
agree or disagree and I want you to use
this phrase here this essay will you
have one minute
all right how did you go just remember
that third sentence of your introduction
is absolutely critical because the
examiner is going to read that then the
examiners going to say okay this person
has understood what to do this person
has understood there is a prompt because
very clearly you've said this essay will
discuss why I agree or why I disagree
and remember you must make a stand you
must choose a side here
cool good stuff so we've written the
introduction let me read you mine and
you'll see how well constructed and
logical that structure is machines are
becoming more common and more
intelligent it is thought by some people
that artificial intelligence will reach
a point where all human occupations will
be able to be conducted by robots rather
than people this essay will discuss why
artificially intelligence robots will in
fact take over all human work in the
near future so there's a few things
going on here first of all it starts
broad and then get specific okay it
starts with that background sentence
woopsie back back ground sentence that's
what I did in the second sentence I
rewrote the question prompt and the
third sentence I said this essay will
okay and then it gets down here and it's
ready to take me through the paragraphs
through my logical thinking
the other important thing here is this
third sentence this essay will discuss
my opinion basically this essay will
discuss whether I agree or disagree and
that's crucial awesome now we're up to
writing the first paragraph I'm going to
teach you a really nice structure for
each of the paragraphs so paragraph 1
remember in our plan we came up with our
reason 1 so my reason one was that
robots will take over all human jobs
because robot intelligence is increasing
it's always in
this is my reason this is why robots
will eventually do all human jobs
sentence 1 I state that reason 1 very
clearly and I'll show you mine in a
second sentence - I give explanation I
explain in one further sentence I add
some detail or add some information
sentence 3 I give an example sentence 4
I conclude that reason 1 so let me show
you my first sentence in the last decade
advances in machine learning have led to
enormous increases in robot intelligence
so my my idea was about increasing
intelligence so I've said here
bla bla bla bla bla increases in robot
intelligence so please write the first
sentence of your paragraph where you
just state the reason 1 whatever it is
very clearly even quite simply if you
want you have one minute
okay how did you go with that first
opening sentence good good nice fabien
yours is looking good I wouldn't say
pretty sure pretty sure as an informal
term I am pretty sure say be more be
more firm with your opinion I'm
completely sure and use formal language
but apart from that that's looking good
good alright good stuff so we've written
the first sentence now we need to give
an explanation we need to add
information to that first sentence so my
first sentence said in the last decade
advances in machine learning have led to
enormous increases in robot intelligence
now I give explanation and I add
information computer technology has
become so pervasive that it is entered
that it has entered every aspect of
society and it has become so intelligent
that we barely know that it is doing the
work that it is that it is I've made a
spelling mistake there that should say
it anyway I've given my explanation you
now have one minute to give an
explanation to your opening sentence
all right that's a tricky sentence to
write because you really have you've got
your opening sentence which introduces
the idea of the paragraph or introduces
your main reason and that second
sentence just gives it more information
and sometimes it's hard to think of that
additional information but you need to
have that second sentence to back up
your first sentence to make your
paragraph solid now we move on to the
third sentence of the paragraph where we
give an example okay so here's my
example I said for example jobs are
disappearing such as train conductors
supermarket attendees and bank tellers
for example I said basically if you
remember correctly so I've said
artificial intelligence is increasing
robots are becoming more intelligent and
then I said let's go back to my second
sentence technology's become so
pervasive that we don't even know it's
there anymore and then I've said jobs
such as bank tellers supermarket
attendees and train conductors have
disappeared as a result of this increase
in intelligence okay so it's still
directed at the question prompt I've
given an example your turn to write your
example sentence three of your paragraph
let me kill mine so you can't say that
all right what example did you use to to
strengthen your paragraph you could have
just said for example blah blah blah you
could have said something like according
to recent research you could have said
98% of people believe that robots will
overtake their take their jobs so you've
got sort of three options here you can
give like a practical example you can
talk about recent research or you can
use a statistic or a percentage or
something like that now you can just
make this up you don't need to memorize
anything like that it's not a test of
your knowledge like that it's a test of
your language abilities come all right
so we've written a third sentence let's
now write the final sentence of the
paragraph
this is sentence number four what we're
going to do is conclude our reason one
mind says this increases in machine
intelligence in recent years has meant
increases have meant an increase has
meant oh my God my verbs wrong just let
me get my verb right here I wrote this
very quickly increases have meant that
jobs are already disappearing and it
won't be long until all jobs are being
conducted by robots before you write
your fourth sentence I want to read you
my entire paragraph so you can see and
hear the inherent logic and the in the
strength of the structure of the
paragraph so my opening sentence in the
last decade advances in machine learning
have led to enormous increases in robot
intelligence now I add information
computer technology has become so
pervasive that it has entered every
aspect of society and it has become so
intelligence that we barely know that it
is doing the work that it is now I give
an example for example jobs are
disappearing such as train conductors
Supermarket attendees and bank tellers
now I conclude
my paragraph increases in machine
intelligence in recent years have meant
that jobs are already disappearing and
it won't be long until all jobs are
being conducted by robots you can see
how this final sentence in particular
links back to that question prompt in
fact the entire paragraph is linked back
to that question prompt so let's go back
a slide and I want you to write your
fourth sentence which is where you
conclude your paragraph you wrap up your
paragraph you have one minute
cool how did you go nice nice nice nice
looking good good well done fade me and
that's a nice example well done it's a
nice specific example so Fabian wrote
that I'm gonna read your sentence for
example one job that may not be replaced
by machines would be dentistry because
people are not willing to put their
teeth to a robot or not not prepared for
a robot to fix their teeth good it's a
great specific example let's read your
final concluding sentence of the
paragraph technology is not always safe
we have to know that people thanks to
their own brain will be better good fine
that's fine I personally disagree with
your with your argument but that's
beside the point
you're being logical you're using
examples you're using good argumentation
and I think the TOEFL examiner would be
very happy with your sentences there so
that's good cool so we've just written
our first paragraph and if you wrote it
correctly it would be extremely logical
it would follow it what's most important
let me tell you this this paragraph
relates to one reason it's not mixed
okay it's not mixed a big problem that
people have when they write paragraphs
is they think hmm I'm going to write
about safety I'm going to write about
cost and I'm going to write about
unemployment all in one paragraph and
that is wrong you write about safety one
paragraph on safety one paragraph on
cost don't in other words don't mix your
paragraphs together with different ideas
one paragraph one idea and what you do
in each sentence is you add information
to it or you you you what's the word
here you sort of
unwrap it you could say or unpack it
more so let's say you're writing one
paragraph about safety as Fabien just
did then because dentists who wants a
robot to fix your teeth because the
robot might be dangerous so the opening
sentence is about safety right it makes
it very clear that the paragraph is
about dangers of robots doing specific
jobs your second sentence adds
information to that and talks about how
humans are much more dexterous with
their hands for example your third
sentence the example talks about how for
example imagine going to a dentist and
having a robot knock your teeth out
right and the fourth sentence concludes
it by talking about safety what are the
dangers of using robots so there's
they're not mixed ideas one paragraph
one idea that's really critical
information to keep in mind cool so
right I'm gonna go through this quickly
how to write paragraph two you can write
this in your own time by watching this
video again I'm just gonna show you mine
so we do the exact same thing
I didn't write about physical aspects
though my paragraph two is a different
idea my first if you remember correctly
my first paragraph was about
intelligence whoops
Intel increases of robots my second
paragraph will be different it's about
the emotional aspects or emotional
intelligence of robots but I'm going to
use the exact same structure I'm gonna
state my reason to very clearly I'm
gonna give an explanation or add
information to it I'm gonna give an
example then I'm going to conclude so
here's my first sentence about emotional
IQ of robots many people believe that
robots will never have the emotional
intelligence of humans to conduct
specific jobs that require traits such
as empathy or compassion okay so it's
quite clear I
said that some people think that robots
will not have the emotional intelligence
to do specific jobs very clear then I
add information to it yes just because
humans have emotional intelligence
doesn't mean that machines can't be
taught to mimic these emotions now I'm
going to give an example for instance
some robots are already beginning to
take care of elderly people in nursing
homes and they are programmed to show
empathy and be kind to these people now
I'm going to wrap up my paragraph with
one sentence a concluding sentence it
won't be long until robots will not only
be able to mimic human emotions but they
will be more emotionally intelligence
than us and therefore they will be more
qualified to do jobs that require
emotion I'm going to read you my full
paragraph from beginning to end let's
have a look first at the four different
sentences in here so I've got my opening
then I add information then I give an
example and then I conclude ok so many
people believe that robots will never
have the emotional intelligence of
humans to conduct specific jobs that
require traits such as empathy or
compassion
yes just because humans have emotional
intelligence doesn't mean the machines
can't be taught to mimic these emotions
for instance some robots are already
beginning to take care of elderly people
in nursing homes and they are programmed
to show empathy and be kind to these
people it won't be long until robots
will not only be able to mimic human
emotions but they will be more
emotionally intelligent than us and
therefore they will be more qualified to
do jobs that require emotion all of this
is connected to that question prompt
every sentence links to the next
sentence and creates a logical flow
through the paragraph in fact if you
think about it this first sentence
connects to that final sentence and the
final sentence connects back to that
first sentence this is the kind of logic
that you want to create in your
paragraphs to get a top score or in the
TOEFL okay great
paragraph three all right the only
reason why you would add a paragraph
three is if you were under the word
count so if you write your essay with
introduction paragraph one paragraph two
conclusion and you're like 280 words you
will need to add a paragraph three which
won't destroy your overall structure you
can just add it in there you can even
make it shorter if you like as long as
you get over 300 words so for me I don't
need it because my word count is going
to be above 300 so let's write the
conclusion for our essay now here's the
overall structure and I want to tell you
how the conclusion links back to the
introduction so remember I told you that
sentence three of your introduction was
the most important sentence of your
essay well this now links to the first
sentence of your conclusion because
incentive three we said this essay will
discuss and in the conclusion your
sentence one says this essay discussed
okay let me explain a little something
else to you so this essay discussed
reasons one from your paragraph and
reason - from your paragraph so my
reason one if you remember was
intelligence is increasing and my reason
- was I talked about emotional IQ or EQ
emotional quotient or EQ so I'm gonna
briefly mention those two themes that I
mentioned in my paragraphs then I'm
gonna give my overall opinion again okay
this makes for a beautifully constructed
essay so sentence 1 this essay discussed
very briefly reasons 1 and 2 from
paragraph 1 and 2
then I give my overall opinion let me
read you my first sentence this essay
discussed how robots int that's a
terrible misuse of an apostrophe this is
why you need to edit your essay robots
intelligence is increasingly I wrote
this very quickly and I didn't edit it
this essay discuss how robots
intelligence is increasing exponentially
and how robots are also improving in
areas that were only thought to be
humanly possible such as emotional
intelligence in other words I said this
essay discussed paragraph 1 and
paragraph 2 and I briefly summarized
both ideas into paragraph and my idea
here about emotional intelligence of the
robots okay so I'm summarizing what the
essay said so please go ahead and write
the first sentence of your conclusion
obviously you haven't come up with your
number two paragraph yet but you can
write it this essay discussed the idea
from paragraph one and the idea from
paragraph two that's the first sentence
of your conclusion you have one minute
all right let me have a look see how you
guys are going all right all right are
you ready to write the final sentence of
your unbelievably high scoring TOEFL
essay I know this all seems a little bit
like you're probably thinking to
yourself how am I going to remember this
on test day how am I going to remember
this on test day you need to practice
this structure once you've written is
essay you know two three four times
using this structure it just starts to
make sense and you just think wow I wish
my teacher had have taught me this in
high school that's what I think anyway I
wish wish my teacher English teacher had
have taught me this saying in high
school but they didn't there you go we
have to devise it ourselves Annie to
language let's write the second sentence
now we give our overall opinion in my
opinion artificially intelligent robots
will eventually have the capacity to
carry out any task that is currently
done by humans and will eventually take
all of our jobs so in other words I said
in my opinion I agree with this question
prompts in my opinion I agree with this
question prompts right and if you
remember in my introduction I also
agreed so you need to make sure that
you're consistent with your introduction
and your conclusion so please go ahead
and write the final sentence of your
essay using this phrase here in my
opinion comma make sure that it links to
this question prompt
all right how did you go in that final
sentence of your entire essay let me
read you this essay explained
the reasons why people are going to be
smarter by contrast two robots are going
to be smarter by contrast robots would
be able to do many other activities but
not at the same level as humans do good
ok nice this essay explains idea from
paragraph one idea from paragraph two
now we move to the final sentence which
was in my opinion robots will not be
able to do some specific jobs that
humans can currently do and therefore
will not eventually do all jobs
something like that cool cool cool cool
cool all right we're nearly at the end
guys and you've written an excellent
essay let me read you my conclusion this
essay discussed how rope but this was my
terrible English robot robots robots
' intelligence let me read it again this
as I discussed how robots intelligence
is increasing exponentially and how
robots are also improving in areas that
were only thought to be humanly possible
such as emotional intelligence in my
opinion artificially intelligent robots
will eventually have the capacity to
carry out any task that is currently
done by humans and will eventually take
all of our jobs three doom and gloom but
that's ok so my overall essay looks like
this on test day this is what it looks
like on my screen of my computer and
I've written three hundred and thirteen
words so I'm over 300 words so I'm safe
I think now I'm going to get a top score
in my TOEFL writing independent essay
which is good news but quickly what I
need to do before I submit my essay or
before the 30 minutes runs out is I need
to evaluate it so I'm going to ask
myself a few questions I'm going to ask
myself does my essay clearly address the
topic in other words is everything I've
written on that question prompt or did I
start to drift off and talk about other
things
also secondly is my essay well organized
did it use a logical structure the
answer is yes if you use the e to
language structure you will write an
excellent essay did I have clear
examples explanations and details yes
every paragraph is structured like that
lastly did I use correct sentence
structure word choice grammar and
vocabulary well if you need help with
that and for total success check out ito
language comm we can help you by giving
you one-on-one tutorials giving you
feedback on your writing you can join in
our live classes that happen every day
there's lots and lots of practice
material on the website in your course
if you need any help at all do check out
the website thanks very much for coming
my name is Jay I appreciate your coming
along I hope you learned something today
see you soon
you